Identity and Access Management is the authentication and authorization of identities in your GCP resources.

Identities can be:
- GCP Users
- GCP Groups
- Unauthenticated Users
- Application running( they would need service account)
- Google workspace
- Cloud Identity domain

Permission:
    These are rules that either allows or deny access to a resources in GCP

Roles:
    Roles are set of permissions, they are just basically a collection of permission, unlike AWS, the roles cannot be
    attached to a resources or users. They need policies.

Policies:
    When you create a role and need to bind it to an entity, you use policies in GCP. Policies bind roles to the entity,
    so they can be used.


 They are different types of roles in GCP.
 - Basic Roles
    Admin
    Viewer
    Editor

 - Predefined roles
   These are roles that are made up by GCP to meet most of your needs.

 - Custom roles
    These roles are created by you. It allows you to be more granular.


The least privilege principle is used.

gcloud projects list iam-policy-bindings

gcloud iam roles list

Service accounts are types of principals used by an application or non-human. The machine uses the service account and
the policies binding to authorize and authenticate in GCP.

Use Cases:
1. We need a VM to talk to cloud storage. You need to create a service account, and binding the roles it would need using
iam policies. Assign the service account to the VM.

2. Onprem VM needs to access the Cloud storage.
    You will need to create a service account key, and use this key to authenticate yourself in GCP, this service account
    would have permissions so the onprem vm would be able to connect to GCS.

✅ Recommended secure approach instead
Use Workload Identity Federation (WIF)

This avoids storing a long-lived service account key.

For on-prem, you can federate identity using:

OIDC identity provider (e.g., Active Directory, AzureAD, Okta, Ping, etc.)

GCP will issue short-lived tokens — no static keys 🔐


A project A needs to access storage in Project B
A service account in Project A must be granted IAM permissions on the bucket in Project B.
Once added to the bucket’s IAM policy, it can access storage in Project B.


Access Control List of Storage
This is who access your object storage, it can be bucket level or object level.
IAM can be use for common permission to object, and acl used for customize access to individual objects.

Presigned URL, allows you to access an object for a limited time to a user.

Static Website Using bucket
1. Create a bucket with the same name as the website name

2. Copy the files into the bucket

3. Add all members allUsers and grant storage object viewer
Select allow public access


gsutil mb gs://www.example.com/

gsutil cp -r ./site/* gs://www.example.com

gsutil iam ch allUsers:objectViewer gs://www.example.com

Tell GCS which is the main page and error page:

gsutil web set -m index.html -e 404.html gs://www.example.com

Now view
http://www.example.com.storage.googleapis.com


You need to:

Verify domain in Cloud Console → Domains

Add a CNAME record:

www.example.com → c.storage.googleapis.com