We have 3 types of storage
1. Block Storage
2. File Storage
3. Object Storage


1. Block Storage:
These are hard disk attached to your instances of the network. They store data in chunks of small block in memory, each
block of data can be individually managed.
There is typically a  1 to 1 relationship between VM and a block storage. However, if you have multiple VM and you want
them to share a single block storage, they must be doing only reads operations to the block storage.
It is very possible to connect multiple block storage to 1 single VM.

Persistent Disk in GCP
    i. Zonal and Regional
    ii. Network Storage
Local SSDs
    i. Physically attached to your VM, and lasts the lifecycle of the VM.
    ii. High IOPS and low latency




2. File Storage:
The data is organized in a folder and files like structure, it is best when a shared file is accessed by multiple systems
These are used in legacy apps that uses file system. Multiple VMs doing a multiple reads and writes.

In GCP it is called File Store


Snapshots:
This is like taking a backup of your persistent disk. It can be regional or multiregion. You can create a VM from a
snapshot of a persistent disk.
The same encryption of the disk is inherited by the snapshot.

Image vs Machine Image

| Feature        | Machine Image                        | Image (general)                          |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- |
| Scope          | Full VM (OS + apps + config + disks) | OS only or container/app snapshot        |
| Purpose        | Clone VM, backup VM                  | Deploy software / OS / container quickly |
| Cloud examples | AWS AMI, GCP Machine Image           | Ubuntu OS image, Docker image            |
| Includes OS?   | Yes                                  | Sometimes (OS image)                     |
| Includes apps? | Usually yes                          | Maybe containerized apps                 |



Object Storage:
This is used to stored unstructured data in a bucket. The is a container for all the objects you need to create. Bucket
names are unique globally. Medias, logs, files and etc can be storage in GCS

We have different storage class based on how frequently you access the data.
- Standard
    This is when you access the data frequently

- Nearline
    This is when you access the data less than once a month

- Coldline
    This is when you access your data less than once in 3months

- Archive
    This is when you access you data once in a year

GCS is serveless, you can add as many objects as you want.

Access Control:
You can have access storage at object level. That is fine grain permission  on specific object.

Object have a key and value in the buckets. The key is the unique name (path) of the object in the bucket, while
the value is the actual data stored — the file content.

Key → "photos/2024/vacation/beach.png"
Value → binary data of the image


Uploading Files in GCS
- Simple upload
    This is when the file you upload is small, no metadata associated with the object

- Multipart upload
    Small files but metadata is associated with the object

- Resumable upload:
    Large files using http

- Streaming transfer:
    Upload unknown size of the object

- Parallel composite uploads
    Divides file into chunks and uploads


Object Versioning:
This prevents accidental deletion and gives history of the object. It is turned on at the bucket level.
If you delete the live version which is the latest version, it becomes the noncurrent object version, if you delete
the noncurrent object version, then the object is deleted.
The older version are identified by object key + generation number.


Object Life Cycle Management
This is an automated way to move object into different storage classes depending on usage, the object moves from classes
to classes based on the rules you specific.


Cloud Storage with GCP KMS
i. Server Side Encryption
    a.This is the default, when you create a bucket, google automatically encrypts the data with their own manage key.
      Which is the google managed key.
    b. You have another options is to use customer managed key, the situation where the customer encrypts the data using
        GCP KMS themselves. But you cloud storage service account must have access to the Customer Managed Keys

 ii. Client Side Encryption
    This is when you encrypt the data before you upload it.







