There is a well-defined hierarchy in GCP

Organization -> Folder -> Projects

Resources are created in projects, folders can contain projects and even other folders. The organization can contain
multiple folders.

Google recommendation
Isolate  projects for different envrionments and application
app-1-dev -----> app-1-dev-project
app-2-dev -----> app-2-dev-project
app-1-prod -----> app-1-prod-project
app-2-prod -----> app-2-prod-project

You can grant fine grain permission based on the project, folder and even organization


Billing Accounts:
Billing accounts contains payment details, in fact every project is associated with a billing account. You can have multiple
billing account in an organization.

Cloud Billing Budget can be used to have threshold and alert us.
This billing data can be set to cloud storage, pubsub or bigQuery to see insight.

User Identity Management.
When you have a organization, you either need cannot be adding users with roles one by one, use can use

1. Google Workspace
This is Google's cloud-based suite of productivity and business tools.
It includes apps for communication, collaboration, storage, and managing users in an organization.

Features:
Company email (name@yourcompany.com)
File sharing & team storage
Real-time editing & collaboration
Video meetings
Admin controls for users and devices
Single sign-on (SSO) to many SaaS apps

In you can link Google workspace to your GCP and manage access.


2. Your Organization Identity provider
Federate GCP with external Identity provider with AD or Azure AD.

Cloud Identity in GCP is a unified IAM for your users in GCP and you can link this with AD or Azure AD.

User tries to access GCP

GCP says: “I don’t check passwords — go ask Azure AD”

User logs in at Azure AD login page

Azure AD verifies identity (password, MFA, etc.)

Azure AD sends a trusted token back to Google

Google grants access to GCP based on IAM roles in Google

Organization policies supersedes IAM roles


Predefines roles

1.Billings

Billing Account Creator     ||  Permission to create billing account
Billing Account Admin       ||  Permssion to manage, but cannot create
Billing Account User        ||  Assign billing account to project
Billing Account viewer      ||  Can only view billing account


2. GKE
Kubernetes Engine Admin: roles.container admin can do everything
K8s Engine cluster admin: Provides access to cluster cannot create object
K8s Engine developer: Can manage objects
K8s engine viewer: get and list objects



SSH login
Metadata managed: manually create and configure inividual ssh
OS login: Manage access without managing individual keys