A database is a system used to store, organize, and manage data so that it can be easily accessed, updated, and retrieved.

| Type              | Description                                             | Example Systems                       |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| Relational DB     | Stores data in tables (rows & columns)                  | MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle |
| NoSQL DB          | Stores data in flexible formats (JSON, key-value, etc.) | MongoDB, Redis, Cassandra             |
| In-memory DB      | Stores data in RAM for speed                            | Redis, Memcached                      |
| Graph DB          | Stores relationships between data                       | Neo4j, Amazon Neptune                 |


Availability and Durability:
This is how available your data is and durable is would be.
To increase availability is having multiple secondary databases in different zones and regions. The durability can be
done by taking snapshots of the databases at interval.

Recovery Point Objective(RPO):
This is the maximum acceptable period whereby a data can be loss

Recovery Time Objective(RTO):
This is the maximum period at which the db can have a downtime.


When you have read intensive on the database, you have a multiple read replicas, so that the master does not do all the
reads and writes.

Consistency of data.
Strong: It is when the data is replicated synchronously. It might be slow if you have multiple replicas.

It is used if the data integrity is very important than availability. Example is bank data

Eventually Consistency: The data is transfer asynchronously, there would be a little lag, but eventually all the replicas
would be consistent.


Database Categories:

1. Relational Databases
This is a database with predefined schema with tables and relationships.
Since they are related, RDB are atomic, is either the change is succeed or doesnt.

Examples of Online Transaction Processing OLTP
i.Cloud SQL, is the  relational database in GCP. It supports a few TBs of data. It can come in MYSQL, POSTGRES, and SQL.
It is great for regional application.

ii.Cloud Spanner, it can scale unlimited, it is great for global applications.

Examples of Online Analytics Processing(OLAP)
When you need to analyze your data
i. BigQuery: It is a relational database that allows you to perform data analysis.

2. NOSQL DATABASE
They are highly scalable, the schemas are flexible and most importantly and stores if json or documents.

Firestore and BigTable are examples


3. In memory Database
They are faster than disk database. They are used for caching and session management.
Example is cloud memory store



Cloud SQL
This is a fully managed relational database in GCP. It is regional service providing high availability.
- It has automatic encryption
- High availability via automatic backups and binary logging (Binary logging in Cloud SQL keeps the MySQL transaction logs
    (specifically, MySQL binary logs), which record every change made to the database)
- Read replicas can be created, but HA cannot be used as read replicas.

Cloud Spanner
This is a globally relational database, with very high availability. It is great for mission critical workloads

BigQuery
This is a relational database, that allows you query large datasets.
- You can export to cloud storage with csv/json or compressed.
- You can configure data to expire data
- You can query external sources and query them




Cloud Datastore and Firestore
This is a NOSQL database offering by Google. Great for mobile and webapps and IOTs

Cloud Bigtable
This is NOSQL for petabyte data. It is designed for huge data

MemoryStore
This is an in memory, for caching. It is fully managed with HA.
Redis and Memcache is support